# Pharos Static Analysis Framework Source Code

Copyright 2015-2019 Carnegie Mellon University. All Rights Reserved.

BSD (SEI)

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

3. Products derived from this software may not include “Carnegie
Mellon University,” "SEI” and/or “Software Engineering Institute" in
the name of such derived product, nor shall “Carnegie Mellon
University,” "SEI” and/or “Software Engineering Institute" be used to
endorse or promote products derived from this software without prior
written permission. For written permission, please contact
permission@sei.cmu.edu.

### ACKNOWLEDGMENTS AND DISCLAIMERS

Pharos Code Release includes and/or can make use of certain third
party software ("Third Party Software"). The Third Party Software that
is used by Pharos Code Release is dependent upon your system
configuration, but typically includes the software identified
below. By using Pharos Code Release, You agree to comply with any and
all relevant Third Party Software terms and conditions contained in
any such Third Party Software or separate license file distributed
with such Third Party Software. The parties who own the Third Party
Software ("Third Party Licensors") are intended third party
beneficiaries to this License with respect to the terms applicable to
their Third Party Software. Third Party Software licenses only apply
to the Third Party Software and not any other portion of Pharos Code
Release or Pharos Code Release as a whole.

This material is based upon work funded and supported by the
Department of Defense under Contract No. FA8702-15-D-0002 with
Carnegie Mellon University for the operation of the Software
Engineering Institute, a federally funded research and development
center.

The view, opinions, and/or findings contained in this material are
those of the author(s) and should not be construed as an official
Government position, policy, or decision, unless designated by other
documentation.  References herein to any specific commercial product,
process, or service by trade name, trade mark, manufacturer, or
otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement,
recommendation, or favoring by Carnegie Mellon University or its
Software Engineering Institute.

NO WARRANTY. THIS CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY AND SOFTWARE ENGINEERING
INSTITUTE MATERIAL IS FURNISHED ON AN "AS-IS" BASIS. CARNEGIE MELLON
UNIVERSITY MAKES NO WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR
IMPLIED, AS TO ANY MATTER INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, WARRANTY OF
FITNESS FOR PURPOSE OR MERCHANTABILITY, EXCLUSIVITY, OR RESULTS
OBTAINED FROM USE OF THE MATERIAL. CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DOES NOT
MAKE ANY WARRANTY OF ANY KIND WITH RESPECT TO FREEDOM FROM PATENT,
TRADEMARK, OR COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT.

[DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT A] This material has been approved for public
release and unlimited distribution.  Please see Copyright notice for
non-US Government use and distribution.

Carnegie Mellon® is registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office
by Carnegie Mellon University.

### Third-Party Software

This Software includes and/or makes use of the following Third-Party
Software subject to its own license:


1. ROSE Compiler Framework (http://rosecompiler.org/)

   Copyright 2017 LLNL

   http://rosecompiler.org/ROSE_HTML_Reference/group__license.html

2. SWI-Prolog (https://swi-prolog.org/)

   Copyright (c) 2008-2020, University of Amsterdam, VU University Amsterdam

   https://github.com/SWI-Prolog/swipl-devel/blob/master/LICENSE

3. Z3 (https://github.com/Z3Prover/z3)

   Copyright (c) Microsoft Corporation

   https://github.com/Z3Prover/z3/blob/master/LICENSE.txt

4. Boost (http://www.boost.org/)

   Copyright by various individual authors (see specific modules)

   http://www.boost.org/users/license.html

5. yaml-cpp (https://github.com/jbeder/yaml-cpp)

   Copyright (c) 2008-2015 Jesse Beder

   https://github.com/jbeder/yaml-cpp/blob/master/LICENSE

6. SQLLite (https://www.sqlite.org/)

   Public Domain

   https://www.sqlite.org/copyright.html

7. GoogleTest (https://github.com/google/googletest)

   Copyright 2008, Google Inc

   https://github.com/google/googletest/blob/master/googletest/LICENSE

8. MD5 Implementation

   Copyright (c) 2001 Alexander Peslyak placed in the Public Domain

DM19-0778
